---
layout: single
title:  "Git Notes"
header:
  overlay_color: "#000"
  overlay_filter: "0.1"
  overlay_image: /
  cta_label: "Learn stuff step by step"
  cta_url: "https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials"
  caption: "Photo credit: [**_Jiayong Mo_**](https://alphagarden.github.io)"
classes: wide
date:   2018-06-23 16:26:01 -0600

excerpt: "A personal notes for Git learning"
categories: Git
---

[Reference Material](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials)

#### git revert

 Revert operation will take the specified commit, inverse the changes from that commit, and create a new "revert commit". 

#### git reset

To revert to the specific commit and delete the following commit after that.

**But in this case we may meet the problem of "Head detach" problem. Since the current Head is not belong to the current branch. To fix  this problem. We need to check out to the branch we want and commit the previous commit to this branch.** 
``` bash
git reset --hard <commit id>
```
Unstaging a Staged File

```bash
git rest HEAD <filename>
```

Unstaging all changes 

```bash
git reset HEAD
```

#### git rebase

Rebasing is the process of moving or combing a sequence of commits to a new base commit.

Rebasing is exactly saying : "I want to base my changes on what everybody has already done."

Usage:

* Rebasing is a common way to integrate upstream changes into your local repository. 

1. We checkout to the working branch.(For instance: the upstream branch)

2. Rebase the branch to the current branch 

   ```bash
   git rebase <local branch>
   ```

   [Want to know the differences between Rebase and Merge?](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/merging-vs-rebasing)

#### git checkout

Just check the branch out to the working directory. 

#### git branch

Create a new local branch

``` bash 
git checkout -b <branch_name>
```
create a remote branch
``` bash
git push <remote_name> <branch_name>
```
Delete a local branch
``` bash
git branch -D <branch_name>
```
Delete a remote branch
``` bash
git push <remote_name> --delete <branch_name>
```
Track the remote branch
``` bash 
git checkout --track <remote_name>/<branch_name>
```
Get the commit history 
``` bash
git log --pretty=oneline
```

##### What if we want to create a feature for the upstream repository and sychronize with upstream repository? 

1. We need to set up the upstream remote repo with the below command.

   ```bash
   git remote add upstream <upstream repo url>
   ```

2. Fetch the remote resource to local

   ```bash
   git fetch upstream
   ```

3. Create a new local branch for the remote upstream resource

   ```bash
   git checkout -b <new brach name> <remote>/<branchname>
   ```

4. Checkout to your working branch and merge with upstream 

   ```
   git merge <new branch name>
   ```


#### How to stash the change before we sink from the remote upstream 

When we finished the new features for the project, the one thing we want to do is push the changes to the remote upstream repository. However, we may encounter such situation that we may have committed the current changes before we pull the upstream repository. After we sink the remote upstream repository, we need to merge the remote changes into the current local repository, then we need to commit again. Finally , we will need to commit twice at the end of the day. 

However.  There is something called `git stash`

At this time, even though you didn't sink the changes from the upstream, you still can use one commitment to get everything done. 

After we add every modified or new files into staging area, then we can use the command :

```bash
git stash save "<message>"
```

So we can save the changes and back to the working directory. 

At this time we perform the sink operation.

After that, we can use command to reapply changes and keep it in the stash

```bash
git stash apply
```

Alternatively, we can pop it up and reapply them to the working copy.

```bash
git stash pop
```

If you want to the get the detail of a stash

`git stash show`  add `-p` (--patch) option will show the full diff of a  stash.

##### Revise the most recent commit

We can use --amend option to replace the most recent commitment with revised commitment.

```bash
git commit --amend -m <"Commit message">
```



